Okay, let's tackle this problem. The user wants to know why the formula 5! minus 2 times 4! gives the number of arrangements where books A and B aren't adjacent. Then they want a Python function to brute-force calculate it for n=5 and check if it matches.

First, I need to understand the formula. The total permutations of 5 books is 5! which makes sense. But why subtract 2*4!? 

Hmm, when we subtract the cases where A and B are adjacent. To find the number of arrangements where A and B are next to each other, we can treat them as a single unit. So instead of 5 separate items, we have 4 units: AB, C, D, E. These can be arranged in 4! ways. But wait, A and B can also be BA, so there are 2 possibilities for their order. So total adjacent arrangements are 2*4!.

Therefore, subtracting those from the total gives the non-adjacent arrangements. That explains the formula: 5! - 2*4!.

Now for the Python function. Since n is 5, but the function should handle any n? Wait, the question says "for n=5", but the function is called count_non_adjacent(n). Maybe the function is supposed to work for any n, but the verification is at n=5. Let me read again: "brute-forces the count for n=5". Hmm, maybe the function is written for general n, but tested at 5. 

The brute-force approach would generate all permutations of n books, then count how many have A and B not adjacent. But since the books are distinct, perhaps we can represent them as a list like ['A', 'B', 'C', 'D', 'E'] for n=5. 

Wait, the problem states "n distinct books" so in the function, the input n is the number of books, each considered unique, but two specific ones (A and B) must not be adjacent. Wait, but in the problem statement, the example uses A and B as specific books among the five. So in the general case, for n books, there are two particular books (like labeled A and B) that shouldn't be adjacent. Or does the problem consider that for any two specific books in the set, regardless of n?

Probably, the problem is considering that among the n books, there are two specific ones (say, labeled A and B) and we need to count all permutations where these two are not next to each other. So the function needs to account for that.

So the steps for the brute-force function:

1. Generate all possible permutations of the n books. Each permutation is a tuple or list of the books.

2. For each permutation, check whether A and B are adjacent. If they are not, count it.

3. Return the total count.

But how do we represent the books? Since they are distinct, perhaps we can label them as 0 to n-1, except for two elements which are marked as A and B. Alternatively, maybe in code, we can just use numbers, but track positions of A and B. Wait, maybe it's easier to think of the books as being labeled with identifiers, but in code, perhaps using a list like ['A', 'B', 'C', 'D', ...] up to n elements. However, for n beyond 5, we might need a way to generate labels, but perhaps the actual labels don't matter as long as we can check adjacency between two specific elements.

Alternatively, perhaps in code, the two special books can be considered as the first two elements (like 0 and 1), but that might complicate things. Alternatively, since the problem is about any two specific books among the n, perhaps in the code, we can just pick two elements (like 'A' and 'B') and ensure that in the permutations, they are not next to each other.

Wait, but when n increases beyond 5, the labels would change. Maybe the problem is intended that for any n, the two books are considered as part of the n, so in the code, perhaps the two are fixed as the first two elements, but the rest are others. Alternatively, maybe the problem is abstract, so the code can treat the two as any two elements, but in the brute-force, you can just check for any two elements (like positions 0 and 1) but that might not be necessary. Alternatively, perhaps in the code, the two books can be considered as 'A' and 'B', and the rest as other letters, but for n=5, the books are A,B,C,D,E. For larger n, maybe more letters. But generating permutations with strings might be manageable.

Alternatively, perhaps the easiest way is to represent the books as numbers from 0 to n-1, and assume that the two books we care about are 0 and 1. Then, in the permutations, check if 0 and 1 are adjacent. This approach avoids dealing with string labels and is more straightforward numerically.

So here's the plan for the code:

- The function count_non_adjacent(n):

   - Generate all permutations of the list [0, 1, 2, ..., n-1].

   - For each permutation, check if elements 0 and 1 are adjacent.

   - Count the permutations where they are not adjacent.

But how to check adjacency in a permutation?

For a given permutation (as a list), iterate through the indices from 0 to n-2, and check if either (current element is 0 and next is 1) or (current is 1 and next is 0). If any such pair exists, then they are adjacent. So the permutation is excluded. We need to count all permutations where this condition is false.

Alternatively, for each permutation, loop through each position i from 0 to len-1, and check if the current element is 0 or 1, and the next element is the other. If found, mark as adjacent.

Alternatively, a faster way: find the positions of 0 and 1 in the permutation. Let their indices be i and j. Then, if |i-j| ==1, they are adjacent. So compute the absolute difference between their positions. If it's exactly 1, then they are adjacent.

This method might be more efficient computationally because finding the indices once per permutation and then checking the distance.

Yes, that's better. So steps for each permutation:

- Find the index of 0 (call it pos0)

- Find the index of 1 (pos1)

- Compute the absolute difference between pos0 and pos1. If it's 1, then they are adjacent. So exclude this permutation.

Thus, the count is the total permutations (n!) minus the number of permutations where they are adjacent.

Wait, but the brute-force approach is to count directly, so for each permutation, decide yes/no and accumulate the count.

In code, something like:

from itertools import permutations

def count_non_adjacent(n):
    total = 0
    for p in permutations(range(n)):
        pos0 = p.index(0)
        pos1 = p.index(1)
        if abs(pos0 - pos1) != 1:
            total +=1
    return total

Wait, but permutations returns tuples, right? So in the loop, p is a tuple. So p.index(0) will give the first occurrence of 0, but since all elements are unique, that's okay.

Yes, this should work. Let's test for n=5.

The formula gives 5! - 2*4! = 120 - 2*24 = 120-48=72. So the brute-force should return 72.

Testing the code for n=5:

Let me see, the code would generate all 120 permutations. For each, check positions of 0 and 1. If their positions differ by more than 1 or exactly 1?

Wait, the condition is if the absolute difference is NOT equal to 1. Because if it is equal to 1, they are adjacent, so we don't count that permutation. So only add to total when they are not adjacent.

So the code correctly adds 1 in that case.

Therefore, when n=5, the code should return 72, matching the formula.

Now, let's make sure there are no off-by-one errors. Let me think of a small case, say n=2. Then the formula would be 2! - 2*1! = 2-2=0. Which makes sense, because with two books A and B (0 and 1), the only permutations are [0,1] and [1,0], both have them adjacent, so non-adjacent count is 0. The code would return 0, which matches.

Another test case: n=3. Formula: 6 - 2*2 = 6-4=2. Let's see:

All permutations of [0,1,2]:

[0,1,2]: 0 and 1 are adjacent → excluded.

[0,2,1]: 0 and 1 are separated by 2 → included.

[1,0,2]: 0 and 1 adjacent → excluded.

[1,2,0]: 0 and 1 are separated (positions 0 and 2? Wait, in [1,2,0], the positions of 0 is 2,